# 2020.12.28 Retro Mirror 4:02am Sunday Late Night/Monday Early Morning
I was googling around for a cheetah print algorithm when I stumbled upon [this website]().
Found it through pinterest actually. I never click on those normally since pinterest is such a hellscape.
I clicked on a few of his shaders.
Initially I was going to go for the wavy one, until I found the plasma one.
It just stood out as being so pretty.

So I copied it over and started playing with it.
At first I ... go through each plasma function

Then I got the retro mirror.
It was kinda tilted at first.
But then I was playing with it some more and when I add the line `uv = uv.xx`, the lines become straight how I want them. 
I don't know why though.

# 9:57pm
To take a closer look at what each variable is doing, I like to comment out large parts of the code and see how it changes.
So let's determine what `float panels = (TAU * pos.x);` is doing:

1. `panels`
The `panels` variable is what causes the vertical rectangular panel effect.
 Exploring `float panels = tan(TAU * pos.x);`:
  `pos.x` alone create a color gradient going from left to right starting at gray (0.5) to white (1.0) (xtc-01).
  Multiplying by τ intensifies the gradient (xtc-02).
  Finally, taking the tangent of the product of τ and the x position creates the panel effect.
  The panels are separated by a line caused by the discontinuities produced by the tangent function.
  This effect does not occur with a sin or cos, for example, as they are continuous functions.
  Adding the x position to panels in `panels += pos.x` darkens the gray gradient. (xtc-03)

  `panels *= 0.05` shrinks the line caused by tangent discontinuity that "separates" panels.
   It also makes it feel zoomed in and reduces visual clutter when the sin is taken of it summed with `gradient` in `color += 0.1 * sin(TAU * (panels + gradient));`. (xtc-04)

  ```
    float panels = tan(TAU * pos.x);
    panels += pos.x;
    panels *= 0.05;

    vec3 color = vec3(0.5);
    color += 0.1 * panels;
  ```
Adding in

2. Exploring the `gradients` variable.
The `gradient` variable is responsible for the pretty sunset color gradients.
Red is set to time and will be varied with the sine wave in `color += 0.1 * sin(TAU * (panels + gradient));`. Green is set to 0 here, making it the least present color in the final result. And Blue is set to 0.5, making it very present.
Setting color initially to middle gray (`vec3 color = vec3(0.5);`) makes the output, well, grayer. I like it because it tones down the brightness and gives it a much warmer feel.
Since the red value of the gradient is set to vary with time, taking the sin of the product of τ and the gradient makes the red value change from 0.0 to 1.0, causing the fade between the pink and eggshell blue. (xtc-04, xtc-05).
Multiplying all this by 0.1 keeps the amount of the added color due to the gradient subdued, so it keeps the warm vibe.

```
  vec3 gradient = vec3(u_time, 0.0, 0.5);
  vec3 color = vec3(0.5);
  color += 0.1 * sin(TAU * (gradient));
```

3. Combining `panels` and `gradient`
Adding the panels to the gradients in `color += 0.1 * sin(TAU * (gradient + panels))` applies the gradient over each panel, adding rolling waves of color on each gradient all in unison.

```
  float panels = tan(TAU * pos.x);
  panels += pos.x;
  panels *= 0.05;
  panels += u_time * 0.7;

  vec3 gradient = vec3(u_time, 0.0, 0.5);
  vec3 color = vec3(0.5);
  color += 0.1 * sin(TAU * (gradient + panels));
```

4. Response to `notch` signal
I always want to make the shader respond to an audio input.
However, the colors of this shader are already so pretty and have interesting movement on their own and I want to be careful not to over do it.
Also, I like the cleanness of the lines and the clean vibe as a whole, so I don't want to tarnish that by adding in other distracting line movements or transitions.
In cases like these, I will just make the entire shader brightly flash on an audio frequency passed through a notch filter. 
I like notch filters a lot for this purpose because they pick up the lowest and highest signals, which, to me, are the ones that stand out the most in music. Heavy bass beats, or really high notes.
And those are the times I like the shader to flash brighter.
To get it to the level of brightness I want, I multiplied the notch output frequency by 2.5.
I came about this number by trial and error until I found what looked good to me.

I also want to make sure that during times when the notch output frequency is small or negative, the shader will get darker than what I think looks good.
To keep it bright, I use a clamp to set a minimum threshold of 1.4.
This number, like many, was also found by trial and error.

The maximum threshold on the clamp is tricker if you are using different songs than the one intended. 
Using the XTC by DJ Kove song, I didn't need to bother with an upper bound because the notch frequency never got high enough to make the shader saturate white.
So I just set it at some high number, in this case 10.0



I don't want to cap the brightness for this one though, because the song to this shader never reaches a level that gets bright enough to make the screen all white.

I don't want it too dark, and the notch filter variance for the song I put to this shader is large enough to turn the shader a very dark gray when no high or low frequencies are present to flash white.
To remedy this, I put a clamp around the notch preventing

  `color *= clamp(notch * 2.5, 1.4, 10.0);`

```
  float panels = tan(TAU * pos.x);
  panels += pos.x;
  panels *= 0.05;
  panels += u_time * 0.7;

  vec3 gradient = vec3(u_time, 0.0, 0.5);
  vec3 color = vec3(0.5);
  color += 0.1 * sin(TAU * (gradient + panels));
```
